# Review Period: Q2/2023

## I. Overview:

During this review period, I have continued serving in a Lead Engineer, Software/Application Architect, and, more recently, Product Owner capacity while being classified and compensated as a Senior Software Engineer. I have leveraged a combination of technical expertise, leadership skills, architectural vision, and dogged tenacity to drive the delivery and success of our project features and milestones.

## II. Key Achievements:

1. Technical Leadership: Exhibited technical & architectural leadership skills in my multiple roles as a Lead Engineer, Software/Application Architect, and Product Owner.

     - Continued to serve as primary PCS1 engineering contact/liaison with Product Management team provided ongoing input/consultation, guidance and mentorship to engineers, management, project team (PM, PO, RTE), and architects, ensuring adherence to best practices, and maintaining a high standard of technical excellence across projects.

     - Recorded/conducted several product/technology demos to operations teams, during sprint reviews, and all other events as requested. Housed all recorded demos in BOX for posterity.

     - Served as primary interviewer for all technical interviews for potential PCS1 new hires.

2. Architectural Vision:

     - Consistently demonstrated a deep understanding of our application landscape and has played a key role in shaping the overall architecture. Architectural insights have guided the team in making critical design decisions, resulting in efficient and sustainable software solutions. Ability to envision and design scalable, maintainable, and resilient solutions in the absence of engaged end-user involvement has significantly contributed to the delivery and success features and stories.

          - Designed and documented all features requirements/dependencies/risks/POCs/technologies for all non-network PCS1 features and stories. Ability to translate business requirements into robust technical solutions that has been invaluable to the timely completion of features/stories and work closely with product management and related teams (network, security/compliance, operations, vendors) in the absence of dedicated Automation/Software Architect and Staff Engineer existence/presence/guidance.

3. Project Delivery:

     - Consistently delivered exceptional results within the designated timelines. Meticulous attention to detail, problem-solving skills, and proactive approach have led to the successful completion of critical milestones and the achievement of project goals within expected timeframes/deadlines.

          - All Q1 and Q2 committed and uncommitted PI goals complete or pivoted by end of applicable PI.

          - All assigned stories completed by end of sprint (barring injects, spikes, and/or bugs).

4. Cost savings identification and implementation

     - During an exploratory enabler story for the current on-prem drive erasure solution (Blancco) I found and researched the functional and compliance viability of the Dell BMC built-in solution "SecureErase" to supplant Blancco. I worked with product management, architecture, and security/compliance to ensure it would meet all requirements/thresholds to replace the suboptimal Blancco solution and am now currently architecting the implementation of the SecureErase functionality into our current RaaS retirement automation.  The elimination of Blancco from the disk erasure process with not only simplify the overall codebase (saving development/maintainability/testing hours) but allow for a significant cost savings through avoiding the need to purchase/renew product licenses.

 

## III. Growth and Development:

1. Emerging Technologies:

     - Continued to research, test, and implement new features/versions of current technologies (e.g. Golang, Terraform) to ensure efficiency and compliance of our core technologies stays modern/updated/compliant.

     - Began learning and implementing Ansible (playbooks) for all non-LCM procedural/validation tasks in our current automations, while tooling them to be generic/modular for re-use in future retirement automations (e.g. "brownfield")

    

2. Mentorship and Knowledge Sharing:

     - Continued to administer/curate RaaS Making-A-Developer (MAD) program for onboarding new team members and/or non-team members looking to upskill in the primary languages/concepts/technologies we deal in.

          - updated course syllabus to remove/revise current content and add Ansible content.

     - Continued guiding and supporting engineers, product management, leadership, and architects. by sharing technical and architectural knowledge and providing opportunities for knowledge transfer will foster a culture of continuous learning and development within the team.

     - Completed quarterly OKR(s) commitments within agreed upon deadline(s).

## IV. Accomplishments:

1. Designed, implemented, and delivered/released storage volume deletion in the absence of vendor product (PFxM) functionality to programmatically destroy individual storage volumes via PFxM and with a customer requirement to do so upon mapped datastore removal, I designed/implemented/delivered this functionality via custom Terraform storage volume resource thus fulfilling a required service/rack retirement activity that was (and presently still not) available implemented via the chosen vendor solution (PFxM).  The implementation of this functionality will reduce accidental storage volume deletion introduced by the current need to perform the activity manually.


2. Designed, implemented, and delivered/released vcenter compute cluster (aka PFxM compute service) pre-retirement validation via Ansible playbooks.  This validation is a required safeguard to ensure CLUSTER/SERVICE retirement automation is NOT initiated against a computer cluster/service that is currently providing compute resources to virtual machDemand: New Item Requestine (VM) assets. The implementation of this validation via Ansible will allow for playbook reusability in future retirement of brownfield/unmanaged compute clusters.

 

3.  Designed, implemented, and delivered/released esxi (aka compute host) pre-retirement validation via Ansible playbooks.  This validation is a required safeguard to ensure NODE retirement automation is NOT initiated against a compute node that is no longer associated/managed by a vcenter that is currently providing compute resources to virtual machine (VM) assets. The implementation of this validation via Ansible will allow for playbook reusability in future retirement of brownfield/unmanaged compute clusters.

 

4.  Designed, co-implemented, and delivered/released PFxM service destroy (comprehensive rollback vs truncated object delete) functionality via custom Terraform provider resource. This functionality will complete the Terraform PFxM service deploy resource lifecycle by extending it's current ability to both create/update and now, delete, a PFxM service as a code resource (IaC).

 

5. Refactored suboptimal BMC ARP discovery implementation in custom Terraform BMC provider.  Initial implementation of BMC provider forced a CVP/ARP lookup activity on all resource LCM activities, which could cause latency/availability issues when a single CVP instance is targeted for multiple ARP lookups by concurrent resources.  I refactored the provider datasource to perform a single lookup and return a mapping for consumption by downstream provider resources, thus negating the need for redundant (and potentially catastrophic) CVP calls, as well as simplifying all provider resources by eliminating the need to include ARP lookup attributes with every resource. This refactor not only ensures improved availability of CVP instances by avoiding redundant/overwhelming concurrent calls, but also reduces automation operations overall by coalescing the required ARP lookup activity into a single datasource action and making it's results available as an output that can be consumed separately.

 

6. Discovered/researched and piloted the use of Dell BMC SecureErase functionality to perform required disk erasure activity during rack retirement process.  The use of the Dell SecureErase method will eliminate the need/costs associated with the current disk erasure solution (Blancco Disk Erasure), as well as the simplification/implementation of automating the disk erasure process overall (Blancco API was lacking in both exposed functionality and overall maturity/robustness). The Dell SecureErase method also leverages a much more mature/feature-rich API library, which will lend to ease of extension and future extension.

 

7. Co-developed Ansible playbook automation schema in the absence of an enterprise Ansible orchestration implementation (e.g. AWX/AAP) and playbook/collection/plugin repository (e.g. Ansible Galaxy) using a combination of Gitlab CICD tools and Ansible import ability in a custom build/maintained Ansible-CI docker image.

 

8. Refactored PFxM endpoint construction automation - Due to the lack of naming standardization of PFxM endpoint construction and classification definitions (owned by VHM), current PFxM endpoint construction is deeply nested in RaaS automation using a hard-coded pattern, making changes to a naming standard problematic and time-consuming to update.  I implemented the construction logic much higher in the stack using HCL, this approach makes it easier to find/trace/maintain the naming pattern, as well as removes several projects from a release cycle/path when changes are necessary and release. I also ensure the ability is present for RaaS automation users to provide a PFxM override that will allow to manual override of all automated construction in cases of urgent or timely need of rack build automation.

 

9. Designed, implemented, demoed/presented and delivered/released functionality for PFxM managed credential management via Terraform resource and/or Ansible playbook for use in VHM automations.  Current VHM credential automation involves suboptimal application of unreliable PowerShell scripts, I provided both Terraform and Ansible options (project for them to clone containing all source code) to provide flexibility and ease-of-implementation if VHM chooses to pursue more controlled/sustainable/scalable methods of configuration management.

 

10. Refactored terraform ci image CICD pub/release automation/pathing through the RaaS project stack. Prior to this refactor PCS1 team members would need to run 2 individual release paths, one for dev/testing and one for prod, adding both time, MR rigor, and overall complexity to the overall release process.    I refactored this entire process to automatically trigger dev/test branches upon merge request approvals to 'master' branch, thus eliminating the need to maintain/update/release a separate 'staging/dev' branch across 4 individual, but related projects. This results in the automated publish of staging image changes to a corresponding Artifactory tag without the need to explicitly update/push/approve/merge a dev/staging branch